Amazing Dog Facts and Information

Check out these unusual and interesting dog facts and information! Interesting Dog Stats, or statistics, have also been included in this section. Learn about the wide range of dog facts and information. The largest, smallest, oldest and fastest - all amazing dog information and facts found here. Interesting information and facts about dog anatomy and development are also included! Have a look at the dog information and facts and then try out the Dog Quiz !!

 

	

 
Dog Names Index
Big & Small Dogs
Dog & Puppy Names
Pictures of Dogs
Dog Drawings
Puppies
History of Dogs
Famous Dogs
Dog Symptoms Sorter
Canine Health
Teacup Dogs
Dog Types
Dog Quiz !
	

Interesting Dog Facts
The World Record Breakers!

 

    The Greyhound is the Fastest Dog on Earth and can run 45 miles per hour for short periods of time

    The Irish Wolfhound is the largest dog breed

    The Great Dane is the tallest dog

    The Chihuahua is the smallest dog breed

    The St. Bernard is the heaviest dog breed

    The Worlds oldest known dog was an Australian cattle-dog named Bluey who lived to the age of 29 years and 5 months!

 

Amazing Dog Facts - Did you Know...

    Barking Sands Beach, on the Hawaiian island of Kauai, is known for its unusual dry sand that squeaks or "barks like a dog."
    Two dogs survived the sinking of Titanic
    The Great Dane breed of dog originates from Germany!
    At the end of the Beatles' song "A Day in the Life", an ultrasonic whistle, audible only to dogs, was recorded by Paul McCartney for the enjoyment of his Shetland sheepdog
    When a dog bays at the moon, it is following its basic instinct to call the pack together
    Dogs are mentioned 14 times in the Bible
    Prairie dogs are not dogs - they're a kind of rodent
    The only dog to ever appear in a Shakespearean play was Crab in "The Two Gentlemen of Verona."
    Dalmatian puppies are pure white when they are born and develop their spots as they grow older
    The Poodle's "haircut" was to improve their swimming abilities. The pom-poms were left to keep their joints warm !

Interesting Dog Facts - Dogs and their owners - Some Amazing Facts! Canine Statistics

    There are approximately 68,000,000 dogs owned by people in the United States ranging from mutts, pedigree dogs, exotic dogs and those considered to be cool dogs!
    An American Animal Hospital Association poll showed that 33 percent of dog owners admit that they talk to their dogs on the phone or leave messages on an answering machine while away
    It is estimated that one million dogs in the United States have been named the primary beneficiary in their owner's will
    Approximately 1 in 3 households keep dogs as pets
    36% of homes have dogs
    85% of dogs visit an animal doctor in a year
    There are a total of 157 types of dog breeds recognised by the AKC (American Kennel Club). The Pedigree Dogs
    However, there are as many as 800 distinct breeds recognised by various groups world wide
    The Top 5 favourite types of dog breeds in the US are:
    Labrador Retriever
    Golden Retriever
    German Shepherd
    Beagle
    Dachshund
    The Labrador Retriever is the Number 1 type of dog breed in the USA, Canada and UK !
    According to a survey done by the American Animal Hospital Association 70% of people sign their pet's name on greeting cards
    Based on a life span of 11 years the average cost of owning a dog is $13,550

 

	

Dog photograph
	

 

Interesting Dog Anatomy Facts - Some Amazing Dog Anatomy Facts!

    A young dog has only 28 milk teeth
    Dogs take between 10 and 30 breaths every minute
    A dog's heart beats between 70 and 120 times a minute, compared with a human heart which beats 70 to 80 times a minute
    A dog's temperature is between 100.2 and 102.8 degrees Fahrenheit
    Dogs do not sweat by salivating. They sweat through the pads of their feet.
    Female dog bites are twice as numerous as male dog bites
    The Chow Chow dog has a black tongue
    A dogs sight is better than that of a human in dim light
    Dogs have a visual range of 250 degrees compared to the human range of 180 degrees
    A dog can hear sounds 250 yards away that most people cannot hear beyond 25 yards
    Dogs have twice as many muscles for moving their ears as people
    The average dog's mouth exerts 150 to 180 pounds of pressure per square inch. Some dogs can apply up to 450 pounds

Interesting Puppy Facts - General and Anatomy

    More than five million puppies are born every year in the United States
    A puppy is born blind, deaf and toothless
    During its first week 90% of a puppys time is spent sleeping and 10% eating
    A puppy is only able to crawl during its first week
    A puppy begins to see when it is between 2 to 3 weeks old
    During the ages of 3 to 7 weeks a puppys first teeth, or milk teeth will appear
    At the age of 3 weeks a puppy will develop its sense of smell
    A puppy will sleep for 14 hours every day
    A puppys adult teeth start to come through between 4 and 8 months when it starts to chew everything!
    Some dogs reach sexual maturity at the age of eight months
    A puppy is considered and adult at the age of one year. At this age it is as physically as mature as a 15 year-old human

 

Interesting Canine Facts - The Origins of Dog Phrases & Expressions

    The expression "three dog night" originated with the Eskimos and means a very cold night - so cold that you have to bed down with three dogs to keep warm
    The phrase "raining cats and dogs" originated in 17th Century England when many dogs and cats drowned during heavy downpours of rain and when rivers burst their banks. Their bodies would be seen floating in the rain torrents that raced through the streets giving the appearance that it had literally rained "cats and dogs"
    The term "Dog Days" dates back to Roman times, when it was believed that Sirius, the Dog Star, added its heat to that of the sun from July 3 to August 11 and created exceptionally high temperatures. The Romans called the period "dies caniculares"  or "Days of the Dog."

	
 

Interesting Dog Breed Facts and Information...
This site is crammed with interesting dog breeds facts and information. If you are looking for dog facts and information about specific breeds or groups of dogs then just access the link of your choice at the top of the page.

Famous Dogs - Presidents Dogs - Dog Quiz !
Our Famous Dogs section includes more interesting facts and information about famous canines and their owners. So many US Presidents owned dogs we have dedicated a whole category to the subject (access via Famous Dogs). If you enjoy Trivia and like Dogs then combine the two elements and try out your amazing knowledge of dogs by visiting the Dog Quiz - Can you make it to the 'Winner's Hall of Fame' ? The quiz is fully interactive and picture based - more like a fast game - have fun and enjoy! 
