Fun Dog Facts for Kids

Enjoy these fun dog facts that deliver a variety of information about interesting breeds, puppies, guide dogs such as Labradors and much more. As the famous saying goes, dogs are man’s best friend. Whether it’s as reliable workers, family pets or loyal companions, dogs are wonderful domestic animals that offer a number of qualities that are put to good use by humans.
	  	


    In total there is said to be around 400 million dogs in the world.

    The domestic dog has been one of the most popular working and companion animals throughout human history.

    Dogs perform many useful tasks for humans including hunting, farm work and security as well as assisting those with disabilities such as the blind.

    Although experts often disagree, there is scientific evidence which shows that the domestication of dogs could have occurred more than 15,000 years ago.

    There are hundreds of different breeds of dogs.

    Examples of these breeds include: Bulldog, German Shepherd, Collie, Golden Retriever, St Bernard, Greyhound, Bloodhound, Chihuahua, Labrador, Great Dane, Rottweiler, Boxer and Cocker Spaniel.

    The most popular breed of dog in the world by registered ownership is the Labrador. With their gentle nature, obedience, intelligence and near limitless energy, Labradors make for excellent family pets and reliable workers. They often assist police and are a common choice as guide dogs.

    Dogs have formed such a strong bond as pets, workers and companions to humans that they have earned the nickname "man's best friend".

    Humans help train various dog breeds to enter in competitions such as breed shows, agility and obedience contests, racing and sled pulling.

    Dog have superior hearing than humans, capable of hearing sounds at four times the distance.

    Dogs have a remarkable sense of smell, they are capable of differentiating odors in concentrations nearly 100 million times lower than humans can.

    The average life span for a dog is around 10 to 14 years.

    Those involved in dog breeding refer to males as ‘dogs’, females as ‘bitches’, dogs younger than a year old as ‘puppies’ and a group of offspring as a ‘litter’.

    Domestic dogs are omnivores, they feed on a variety of foods including grains, vegetables and meats.

	

Dog facts

 

 

 

 


